doc/source/installation.rst, before:

Installation
************

Table of contents
=================

* Introduction
* Prerequisites
* Freeswitch installation
* Postgresql configuration
* Web server install
* PyFreeBilling installation
* Next step

Introduction
============

This howto is written for ubuntu 12.04 LTS server. You can use the same
commands for debian based servers, but depending on version, some
commands may differ.

Prerequisites
=============

First, you need to install these packages

::

    apt-get install git-core build-essential autoconf automake libtool libncurses5 libncurses5-dev gawk libjpeg-dev zlib1g-dev pkg-config libssl-dev libpq-dev unixodbc-dev odbc-postgresql postgresql postgresql-client libpq-dev libxml2-dev libxslt-dev ntp ntpdate libapache2-mod-wsgi apache2 gcc python-setuptools python-pip libjpeg62 libjpeg62-dev libdbd-pg-perl libtext-csv-perl sqlite3 libsqlite3-dev libcurl4-openssl-dev libpcre3-dev libspeex-dev libspeexdsp-dev libldns-dev libedit-dev libmemcached-dev python-psycopg2 python-dev

Freeswitch installation
=======================

* go to the source directory

::

    cd /usr/src

* and download the last stable freeswitch version

::

    git clone -b v1.2 https://stash.freeswitch.org/scm/fs/freeswitch.git

    OR

    git clone -b v1.4 https://stash.freeswitch.org/scm/fs/freeswitch.git

* after, boostrap, configure, make and install freeswitch

::

    cd freeswitch
    ./bootstrap.sh -j
    

* edit modules.conf suiting your needs. You will find below the minimum
   modules to install :

::

   applications/mod_commands
   applications/mod_db
   applications/mod_dptools
   pplications/mod_esf
   applications/mod_esl
   applications/mod_expr
   applications/mod_fifo
   applications/mod_fsv
   applications/mod_hash
   applications/mod_memcache
   applications/mod_nibblebill
   codecs/mod_amr
   codecs/mod_g723_1
   codecs/mod_g729
   dialplans/mod_dialplan_xml
   endpoints/mod_loopback
   endpoints/mod_sofia
   event_handlers/mod_cdr_csv
   event_handlers/mod_event_socket
   formats/mod_local_stream
   formats/mod_native_file
   formats/mod_sndfile
   formats/mod_tone_stream
   languages/mod_lua
   languages/mod_spidermonkey
   loggers/mod_console
   loggers/mod_logfile
   loggers/mod_syslog
   say/mod_say_en

* after, do :

::

    ./configure
    make
    make install

* you need to compile esl for python

::

    cd libs/esl
    make pymod
    make pymod-install

* create a freeswitch user and group as follow :

::

    groupadd freeswitch
    adduser --disabled-password  --quiet --system --home /usr/local/freeswitch --gecos "FreeSWITCH Voice Platform" --ingroup daemon freeswitch

* and to apply the rule to freeswitch user :

::

    chown -R freeswitch:daemon /usr/local/freeswitch/
    chmod -R ug=rwX,o= /usr/local/freeswitch/
    chmod -R u=rwx,g=rx /usr/local/freeswitch/bin/

* and now, we need to create the init script to start and stop
   freeswitch :

::

    nano /etc/init.d/freeswitch

* Add your init code

::

	#!/bin/bash
	### BEGIN INIT INFO
	# Provides:          freeswitch
	# Required-Start:    $local_fs $remote_fs
	# Required-Stop:     $local_fs $remote_fs
	# Default-Start:     2 3 4 5
	# Default-Stop:      0 1 6
	# Description:       Freeswitch debian init script.
	# Author:            Matthew Williams
	#
	### END INIT INFO
	# Do NOT "set -e"
	 
	# PATH should only include /usr/* if it runs after the mountnfs.sh script
	PATH=/sbin:/usr/sbin:/bin:/usr/bin:/usr/local/bin
	DESC="Freeswitch"
	NAME=freeswitch
	DAEMON=/usr/local/freeswitch/bin/$NAME
	DAEMON_ARGS="-nc -nonat"
	PIDFILE=/usr/local/freeswitch/run/$NAME.pid
	SCRIPTNAME=/etc/init.d/$NAME
	 
	FS_USER=freeswitch
	FS_GROUP=daemon
	 
	# Exit if the package is not installed
	[ -x "$DAEMON" ] || exit 0
	 
	# Read configuration variable file if it is present
	[ -r /etc/default/$NAME ] && . /etc/default/$NAME
	 
	# Load the VERBOSE setting and other rcS variables
	. /lib/init/vars.sh
	 
	# Define LSB log_* functions.
	# Depend on lsb-base (>= 3.0-6) to ensure that this file is present.
	. /lib/lsb/init-functions
	 
	#
	# Function that sets ulimit values for the daemon
	#
	do_setlimits() {
	        ulimit -c unlimited
	        ulimit -d unlimited
	        ulimit -f unlimited
	        ulimit -i unlimited
	        ulimit -n 999999
	        ulimit -q unlimited
	        ulimit -u unlimited
	        ulimit -v unlimited
	        ulimit -x unlimited
	        ulimit -s 240
	        ulimit -l unlimited
	        return 0
	}
	 
	#
	# Function that starts the daemon/service
	#
	do_start()
	{
	    # Set user to run as
	        if [ $FS_USER ] ; then
	      DAEMON_ARGS="`echo $DAEMON_ARGS` -u $FS_USER"
	        fi
	    # Set group to run as
	        if [ $FS_GROUP ] ; then
	          DAEMON_ARGS="`echo $DAEMON_ARGS` -g $FS_GROUP"
	        fi
	 
	        # Return
	        #   0 if daemon has been started
	        #   1 if daemon was already running
	        #   2 if daemon could not be started
	        start-stop-daemon --start --quiet --pidfile $PIDFILE --exec $DAEMON --test > /dev/null -- \
	                || return 1
	        do_setlimits
	        start-stop-daemon --start --quiet --pidfile $PIDFILE --exec $DAEMON --background -- \
	                $DAEMON_ARGS \
	                || return 2
	        # Add code here, if necessary, that waits for the process to be ready
	        # to handle requests from services started subsequently which depend
	        # on this one.  As a last resort, sleep for some time.
	}
	 
	#
	# Function that stops the daemon/service
	#
	do_stop()
	{
	        # Return
	        #   0 if daemon has been stopped
	        #   1 if daemon was already stopped
	        #   2 if daemon could not be stopped
	        #   other if a failure occurred
	        start-stop-daemon --stop --quiet --retry=TERM/30/KILL/5 --pidfile $PIDFILE --name $NAME
	        RETVAL="$?"
	        [ "$RETVAL" = 2 ] && return 2
	        # Wait for children to finish too if this is a daemon that forks
	        # and if the daemon is only ever run from this initscript.
	        # If the above conditions are not satisfied then add some other code
	        # that waits for the process to drop all resources that could be
	        # needed by services started subsequently.  A last resort is to
	        # sleep for some time.
	        start-stop-daemon --stop --quiet --oknodo --retry=0/30/KILL/5 --exec $DAEMON
	        [ "$?" = 2 ] && return 2
	        # Many daemons don't delete their pidfiles when they exit.
	        rm -f $PIDFILE
	        return "$RETVAL"
	}
	 
	#
	# Function that sends a SIGHUP to the daemon/service
	#
	do_reload() {
	        #
	        # If the daemon can reload its configuration without
	        # restarting (for example, when it is sent a SIGHUP),
	        # then implement that here.
	        #
	        start-stop-daemon --stop --signal 1 --quiet --pidfile $PIDFILE --name $NAME
	        return 0
	}
	 
	case "$1" in
	  start)
	        [ "$VERBOSE" != no ] && log_daemon_msg "Starting $DESC" "$NAME"
	        do_start
	        case "$?" in
	                0|1) [ "$VERBOSE" != no ] && log_end_msg 0 ;;
	                2) [ "$VERBOSE" != no ] && log_end_msg 1 ;;
	        esac
	        ;;
	  stop)
	        [ "$VERBOSE" != no ] && log_daemon_msg "Stopping $DESC" "$NAME"
	        do_stop
	        case "$?" in
	                0|1) [ "$VERBOSE" != no ] && log_end_msg 0 ;;
	                2) [ "$VERBOSE" != no ] && log_end_msg 1 ;;
	        esac
	        ;;
	  status)
	       status_of_proc -p $PIDFILE $DAEMON $NAME && exit 0 || exit $?
	       ;;
	  #reload|force-reload)
	        #
	        # If do_reload() is not implemented then leave this commented out
	        # and leave 'force-reload' as an alias for 'restart'.
	        #
	        #log_daemon_msg "Reloading $DESC" "$NAME"
	        #do_reload
	        #log_end_msg $?
	        #;;
	  restart|force-reload)
	        #
	        # If the "reload" option is implemented then remove the
	        # 'force-reload' alias
	        #
	        log_daemon_msg "Restarting $DESC" "$NAME"
	        do_stop
	        case "$?" in
	          0|1)
	                do_start
	                case "$?" in
	                        0) log_end_msg 0 ;;
	                        1) log_end_msg 1 ;; # Old process is still running
	                        *) log_end_msg 1 ;; # Failed to start
	                esac
	                ;;
	          *)
	                # Failed to stop
	                log_end_msg 1
	                ;;
	        esac
	        ;;
	  *)
	        #echo "Usage: $SCRIPTNAME {start|stop|restart|reload|force-reload}" >&2
	        echo "Usage: $SCRIPTNAME {start|stop|restart|force-reload}" >&2
	        exit 3
	        ;;
	esac
	 
	exit 0

* make this script executable :

::

    chmod +x /etc/init.d/freeswitch
    update-rc.d freeswitch defaults

* add the cli link :

::

	ln -s /usr/local/freeswitch/bin/fs_cli /bin/fs_cli

Postgresql configuration
========================

* create user and database :

::

    sudo -i -u postgres   

::

    createuser -P pyfreebilling   
        Enter password for new role:    
        Enter it again:    
        Shall the new role be a superuser? (y/n) n   
        Shall the new role be allowed to create databases? (y/n) y   
        Shall the new role be allowed to create more new roles? (y/n) y  

::

    createdb -O pyfreebilling -E UTF8 pyfreebilling
    exit

* set odbc parameters; you need to create and edit /etc/odbc.ini file. Do not forget to specify your postgres password !

::

    [freeswitch]   
    Driver = PostgreSQL   
    Description = Connection to POSTGRESQL   
    Servername = 127.0.0.1   
    Port = 5432   
    Protocol = 6.4   
    FetchBufferSize = 99   
    Username = pyfreebilling   
    Password =    
    Database = pyfreebilling   
    ReadOnly = no   
    Debug = 0   
    CommLog = 0

* edit /etc/odbcinst.ini (delete all entries and add these ones)

::

    [PostgreSQL]   
    Description     = PostgreSQL ODBC driver (Unicode version)   
    Driver          = /usr/lib/x86_64-linux-gnu/odbc/psqlodbcw.so   
    Setup           = /usr/lib/x86_64-linux-gnu/odbc/libodbcpsqlS.so   
    Debug           = 0   
    CommLog         = 0   
    UsageCount      = 0   
    Threading       = 0   
    MaxLongVarcharSize = 65536

Web server install
==================


* securing apache

::

    sudo a2enmod ssl
    sudo make-ssl-cert /usr/share/ssl-cert/ssleay.cnf /etc/ssl/private/localhost.pem (or use others methods or certificats)

* install python virtualenv

::

	pip install virtualenv
	cd /usr/local
	virtualenv venv --no-site-packages
	chown -R myuser:mysuser venv (replace myuser by your current user, perhaps root - better other one)

* activate it :

::

	source venv/bin/activate
	cd venv

* install CPAN :

   * install all dependent packages for CPAN

   ::

		apt-get install build-essential

   * invoke the cpan command as a normal user :
   
   ::

      $cpan
      But once you hit on enter for “cpan” to execute, you be asked of
      some few questions. To make it simple for yourself, answer “no”
      for the first question so that the latter ones will be done for
      you automatically.

      -> ANSWER YES
      
   
   * Once the above is done, you will be present with the cpan prompt.
      now enter the commands below
      
   ::
      
      cpan prompt> make install
      cpan prompt> install Bundle::CPAN


   * Now all is set and you can install any perl module you want.
      examples of what installed below
      
   ::
      
      cpan prompt>  install Carp
      cpan prompt>  install Filter::Simple
      cpan prompt>  install Config::Vars
      cpan prompt>  exit
      

Pyfreebilling installation
==========================

* download pyfreebilling sources :

::

	git clone https://mwolff@bitbucket.org/mwolff/pyfreebilling.git
	chown -R www-data:www-data pyfreebilling
	cd pyfreebilling

* create un new file in pyfreebilling directory called local_settings.py

::

    touch pyfreebilling/local_settings.py
    
* edit this new file, and put yours specific values

::

	# -*- coding: utf-8 -*-
	from .settings import *
	
	DEBUG = False
	
	MANAGERS = ADMINS
	
	DATABASES = {
	    'default': {
	        'ENGINE': 'django.db.backends.postgresql_psycopg2',
	        'NAME': 'pyfreebilling',
	        'USER': 'pyfreebilling',
	        'PASSWORD': 'password',
	        'HOST': '127.0.0.1',                      
	        'PORT': '',                      # Set to empty string for default.
	    }
	}
	
	ALLOWED_HOSTS = ['*']

	SECRET_KEY = 'securitykeymustbechanged'  # very important - put your key for security - any string
	
	TIME_ZONE = 'Europe/Paris'

	OPENEXCHANGERATES_APP_ID = "Your API Key"
	
	#-- Nb days of CDR to show
	PFB_NB_ADMIN_CDR = 3
	PFB_NB_CUST_CDR = 30
	
	# EMAIL SETUP
	TEMPLATED_EMAIL_BACKEND = 'templated_email.backends.vanilla_django.TemplateBackend'
	TEMPLATED_EMAIL_TEMPLATE_DIR = 'templated_email/'
	TEMPLATED_EMAIL_FILE_EXTENSION = 'email'
	
	EMAIL_BACKEND = 'django.core.mail.backends.smtp.EmailBackend'
	EMAIL_HOST = ''
	EMAIL_PORT = 587
	EMAIL_HOST_USER = ''
	EMAIL_HOST_PASSWORD = ''
	#EMAIL_USE_TLS = True
	EMAIL_USE_SSL = True
	EMAIL_SIGNATURE = '' 

* and now, enter the following commands without sudo (IMPORTANT). At the step "syncdb", you will fave a prompt asking you to enter a username and a password. They are very important, as thez are the admin one !
	
::

	pip install -r requirements/requirements.txt
	python manage.py syncdb (IMPORTANT : enter your username and password)
	python manage.py initcurrencies
	python manage.py migrate
	python manage.py loaddata country_dialcode.json
	python manage.py loaddata switch 0001_fixtures.json
	python manage.py loaddata 0001_initial_SipProfile.json
	python manage.py loaddata 0001_initial_ReccurentTasks.json
	python manage.py updatecurrencies (if you have set your Openexchange API key)
	python manage.py collectstatic (answer 'yes')


* copy some config files :

::

	cp -av /usr/local/venv/pyfreebilling/freeswitch/conf/autoload_configs/acl.conf.xml /usr/local/freeswitch/conf/autoload_configs/acl.conf.xml
	cp -av /usr/local/venv/pyfreebilling/freeswitch/conf/autoload_configs/cdr_csv.conf.xml /usr/local/freeswitch/conf/autoload_configs/cdr_csv.conf.xml
	cp -av /usr/local/venv/pyfreebilling/freeswitch/conf/autoload_configs/modules.conf.xml /usr/local/freeswitch/conf/autoload_configs/modules.conf.xml
	cp -av /usr/local/venv/pyfreebilling/freeswitch/conf/autoload_configs/nibblebill.conf.xml /usr/local/freeswitch/conf/autoload_configs/nibblebill.conf.xml
	cp -av /usr/local/venv/pyfreebilling/freeswitch/dialplan/pyfreebill.xml /usr/local/freeswitch/conf/dialplan/pyfreebill.xml
	cp -av /usr/local/venv/pyfreebilling/freeswitch/dialplan/public/00_did.xml /usr/local/freeswitch/conf/dialplan/public/00_did.xml
	cp -av /usr/local/venv/pyfreebilling/freeswitch/conf/freeswitch.xml /usr/local/freeswitch/conf/freeswitch.xml


* copy freeswitch esl binaries to your virtual env directory

::

    cd /usr/src/freeswitch
    cp libs/esl/python/ESL.py /usr/local/venv/lib/python2.7/site-packages/
    cp libs/esl/python/_ESL.so /usr/local/venv/lib/python2.7/site-packages/

* set good rights :

::

	rm -f /usr/local/freeswitch/conf/directory/default/*
	chown -R freeswitch:freeswitch /usr/local/venv/pyfreebilling/freeswitch/scripts/
	chmod 2750 /usr/local/freeswitch
	chmod 2750 /usr/local/freeswitch/conf/
	chmod 2750 /usr/local/freeswitch/conf/autoload_configs/
	chmod 2750 /usr/local/freeswitch/conf/directory/
	chmod 2750 /usr/local/freeswitch/conf/dialplan/
	chmod 2750 /usr/local/freeswitch/conf/dialplan/public/
	chmod 770 /usr/local/freeswitch/conf/directory/default.xml
	chmod 770 /usr/local/freeswitch/conf/autoload_configs/sofia.conf.xml
	chmod 770 /usr/local/freeswitch/conf/dialplan/public/00_did.xml
	chown freeswitch:www-data -R /usr/local/freeswitch/
	mkdir /tmp/cdr-csv/
	chmod 777 -R /tmp/cdr-csv
	touch /tmp/cdr-csv/Master.csv
	chmod 600 /tmp/cdr-csv/Master.csv
	chown freeswitch:freeswitch /tmp/cdr-csv/Master.csv
	chown -R freeswitch:daemon /tmp/cdr-csv/


* set apache config :

::

	cp /usr/local/venv/pyfreebilling/setup/apache/001-pyfreebilling /etc/apache2/sites-enabled/000-default
	a2ensite 000-default
	/etc/init.d/apache2 restart


* set crontab :

::

    */1 * * * * perl /usr/local/venv/pyfreebilling/freeswitch/scripts/import-csv.pl>> /var/log/cron.log 2>&1   
    * * * * * /usr/local/venv/pyfreebilling/chroniker -e /usr/local/venv/bin/activate_this.py -p /usr/local/venv/pyfreebilling


* modify db password and somme settings in :

::

	/usr/local/venv/pyfreebilling/pyfreebilling/local_settings.py
	/usr/local/venv/pyfreebilling/freeswitch/scripts/import-csv.pl

Pyfreebilling login
==========================

 Got to the url http://my-ip/extranet and enter your username and password.
 
 I recommend to setup a firewall restrincting access to web pages and your voip ports !

Commit message:

correct error in customer panel if user is not link to a company

doc/source/installation.rst, after:

Installation
************

Table of contents
=================

* Introduction
* Prerequisites
* Freeswitch installation
* Postgresql configuration
* Web server install
* PyFreeBilling installation
* Next step

Introduction
============

This howto is written for ubuntu 12.04 LTS server. You can use the same
commands for debian based servers, but depending on version, some
commands may differ.

Prerequisites
=============

First, you need to install these packages

::

    apt-get install git-core build-essential autoconf automake libtool libncurses5 libncurses5-dev gawk libjpeg-dev zlib1g-dev pkg-config libssl-dev libpq-dev unixodbc-dev odbc-postgresql postgresql postgresql-client libpq-dev libxml2-dev libxslt-dev ntp ntpdate libapache2-mod-wsgi apache2 gcc python-setuptools python-pip libjpeg62 libjpeg62-dev libdbd-pg-perl libtext-csv-perl sqlite3 libsqlite3-dev libcurl4-openssl-dev libpcre3-dev libspeex-dev libspeexdsp-dev libldns-dev libedit-dev libmemcached-dev python-psycopg2 python-dev

Freeswitch installation
=======================

* go to the source directory

::

    cd /usr/src

* and download the last stable freeswitch version

::

    git clone -b v1.2 https://stash.freeswitch.org/scm/fs/freeswitch.git

    OR

    git clone -b v1.4 https://stash.freeswitch.org/scm/fs/freeswitch.git

* after, boostrap, configure, make and install freeswitch

::

    cd freeswitch
    ./bootstrap.sh -j
    

* edit modules.conf suiting your needs. You will find below the minimum
   modules to install :

::

   applications/mod_commands
   applications/mod_db
   applications/mod_dptools
   pplications/mod_esf
   applications/mod_esl
   applications/mod_expr
   applications/mod_fifo
   applications/mod_fsv
   applications/mod_hash
   applications/mod_memcache
   applications/mod_nibblebill
   codecs/mod_amr
   codecs/mod_g723_1
   codecs/mod_g729
   dialplans/mod_dialplan_xml
   endpoints/mod_loopback
   endpoints/mod_sofia
   event_handlers/mod_cdr_csv
   event_handlers/mod_event_socket
   formats/mod_local_stream
   formats/mod_native_file
   formats/mod_sndfile
   formats/mod_tone_stream
   languages/mod_lua
   languages/mod_spidermonkey
   loggers/mod_console
   loggers/mod_logfile
   loggers/mod_syslog
   say/mod_say_en

* after, do :

::

    ./configure
    make
    make install

* you need to compile esl for python

::

    cd libs/esl
    make pymod
    make pymod-install

* create a freeswitch user and group as follow :

::

    groupadd freeswitch
    adduser --disabled-password  --quiet --system --home /usr/local/freeswitch --gecos "FreeSWITCH Voice Platform" --ingroup daemon freeswitch

* and to apply the rule to freeswitch user :

::

    chown -R freeswitch:daemon /usr/local/freeswitch/
    chmod -R ug=rwX,o= /usr/local/freeswitch/
    chmod -R u=rwx,g=rx /usr/local/freeswitch/bin/

* and now, we need to create the init script to start and stop
   freeswitch :

::

    nano /etc/init.d/freeswitch

* Add your init code

::

	#!/bin/bash
	### BEGIN INIT INFO
	# Provides:          freeswitch
	# Required-Start:    $local_fs $remote_fs
	# Required-Stop:     $local_fs $remote_fs
	# Default-Start:     2 3 4 5
	# Default-Stop:      0 1 6
	# Description:       Freeswitch debian init script.
	# Author:            Matthew Williams
	#
	### END INIT INFO
	# Do NOT "set -e"
	 
	# PATH should only include /usr/* if it runs after the mountnfs.sh script
	PATH=/sbin:/usr/sbin:/bin:/usr/bin:/usr/local/bin
	DESC="Freeswitch"
	NAME=freeswitch
	DAEMON=/usr/local/freeswitch/bin/$NAME
	DAEMON_ARGS="-nc -nonat"
	PIDFILE=/usr/local/freeswitch/run/$NAME.pid
	SCRIPTNAME=/etc/init.d/$NAME
	 
	FS_USER=freeswitch
	FS_GROUP=daemon
	 
	# Exit if the package is not installed
	[ -x "$DAEMON" ] || exit 0
	 
	# Read configuration variable file if it is present
	[ -r /etc/default/$NAME ] && . /etc/default/$NAME
	 
	# Load the VERBOSE setting and other rcS variables
	. /lib/init/vars.sh
	 
	# Define LSB log_* functions.
	# Depend on lsb-base (>= 3.0-6) to ensure that this file is present.
	. /lib/lsb/init-functions
	 
	#
	# Function that sets ulimit values for the daemon
	#
	do_setlimits() {
	        ulimit -c unlimited
	        ulimit -d unlimited
	        ulimit -f unlimited
	        ulimit -i unlimited
	        ulimit -n 999999
	        ulimit -q unlimited
	        ulimit -u unlimited
	        ulimit -v unlimited
	        ulimit -x unlimited
	        ulimit -s 240
	        ulimit -l unlimited
	        return 0
	}
	 
	#
	# Function that starts the daemon/service
	#
	do_start()
	{
	    # Set user to run as
	        if [ $FS_USER ] ; then
	      DAEMON_ARGS="`echo $DAEMON_ARGS` -u $FS_USER"
	        fi
	    # Set group to run as
	        if [ $FS_GROUP ] ; then
	          DAEMON_ARGS="`echo $DAEMON_ARGS` -g $FS_GROUP"
	        fi
	 
	        # Return
	        #   0 if daemon has been started
	        #   1 if daemon was already running
	        #   2 if daemon could not be started
	        start-stop-daemon --start --quiet --pidfile $PIDFILE --exec $DAEMON --test > /dev/null -- \
	                || return 1
	        do_setlimits
	        start-stop-daemon --start --quiet --pidfile $PIDFILE --exec $DAEMON --background -- \
	                $DAEMON_ARGS \
	                || return 2
	        # Add code here, if necessary, that waits for the process to be ready
	        # to handle requests from services started subsequently which depend
	        # on this one.  As a last resort, sleep for some time.
	}
	 
	#
	# Function that stops the daemon/service
	#
	do_stop()
	{
	        # Return
	        #   0 if daemon has been stopped
	        #   1 if daemon was already stopped
	        #   2 if daemon could not be stopped
	        #   other if a failure occurred
	        start-stop-daemon --stop --quiet --retry=TERM/30/KILL/5 --pidfile $PIDFILE --name $NAME
	        RETVAL="$?"
	        [ "$RETVAL" = 2 ] && return 2
	        # Wait for children to finish too if this is a daemon that forks
	        # and if the daemon is only ever run from this initscript.
	        # If the above conditions are not satisfied then add some other code
	        # that waits for the process to drop all resources that could be
	        # needed by services started subsequently.  A last resort is to
	        # sleep for some time.
	        start-stop-daemon --stop --quiet --oknodo --retry=0/30/KILL/5 --exec $DAEMON
	        [ "$?" = 2 ] && return 2
	        # Many daemons don't delete their pidfiles when they exit.
	        rm -f $PIDFILE
	        return "$RETVAL"
	}
	 
	#
	# Function that sends a SIGHUP to the daemon/service
	#
	do_reload() {
	        #
	        # If the daemon can reload its configuration without
	        # restarting (for example, when it is sent a SIGHUP),
	        # then implement that here.
	        #
	        start-stop-daemon --stop --signal 1 --quiet --pidfile $PIDFILE --name $NAME
	        return 0
	}
	 
	case "$1" in
	  start)
	        [ "$VERBOSE" != no ] && log_daemon_msg "Starting $DESC" "$NAME"
	        do_start
	        case "$?" in
	                0|1) [ "$VERBOSE" != no ] && log_end_msg 0 ;;
	                2) [ "$VERBOSE" != no ] && log_end_msg 1 ;;
	        esac
	        ;;
	  stop)
	        [ "$VERBOSE" != no ] && log_daemon_msg "Stopping $DESC" "$NAME"
	        do_stop
	        case "$?" in
	                0|1) [ "$VERBOSE" != no ] && log_end_msg 0 ;;
	                2) [ "$VERBOSE" != no ] && log_end_msg 1 ;;
	        esac
	        ;;
	  status)
	       status_of_proc -p $PIDFILE $DAEMON $NAME && exit 0 || exit $?
	       ;;
	  #reload|force-reload)
	        #
	        # If do_reload() is not implemented then leave this commented out
	        # and leave 'force-reload' as an alias for 'restart'.
	        #
	        #log_daemon_msg "Reloading $DESC" "$NAME"
	        #do_reload
	        #log_end_msg $?
	        #;;
	  restart|force-reload)
	        #
	        # If the "reload" option is implemented then remove the
	        # 'force-reload' alias
	        #
	        log_daemon_msg "Restarting $DESC" "$NAME"
	        do_stop
	        case "$?" in
	          0|1)
	                do_start
	                case "$?" in
	                        0) log_end_msg 0 ;;
	                        1) log_end_msg 1 ;; # Old process is still running
	                        *) log_end_msg 1 ;; # Failed to start
	                esac
	                ;;
	          *)
	                # Failed to stop
	                log_end_msg 1
	                ;;
	        esac
	        ;;
	  *)
	        #echo "Usage: $SCRIPTNAME {start|stop|restart|reload|force-reload}" >&2
	        echo "Usage: $SCRIPTNAME {start|stop|restart|force-reload}" >&2
	        exit 3
	        ;;
	esac
	 
	exit 0

* make this script executable :

::

    chmod +x /etc/init.d/freeswitch
    update-rc.d freeswitch defaults

* add the cli link :

::

	ln -s /usr/local/freeswitch/bin/fs_cli /bin/fs_cli

Postgresql configuration
========================

* create user and database :

::

    sudo -i -u postgres   

::

    createuser -P pyfreebilling   
        Enter password for new role:    
        Enter it again:    
        Shall the new role be a superuser? (y/n) n   
        Shall the new role be allowed to create databases? (y/n) y   
        Shall the new role be allowed to create more new roles? (y/n) y  

::

    createdb -O pyfreebilling -E UTF8 pyfreebilling
    exit

* set odbc parameters; you need to create and edit /etc/odbc.ini file. Do not forget to specify your postgres password !

::

    [freeswitch]   
    Driver = PostgreSQL   
    Description = Connection to POSTGRESQL   
    Servername = 127.0.0.1   
    Port = 5432   
    Protocol = 6.4   
    FetchBufferSize = 99   
    Username = pyfreebilling   
    Password =    
    Database = pyfreebilling   
    ReadOnly = no   
    Debug = 0   
    CommLog = 0

* edit /etc/odbcinst.ini (delete all entries and add these ones)

::

    [PostgreSQL]   
    Description     = PostgreSQL ODBC driver (Unicode version)   
    Driver          = /usr/lib/x86_64-linux-gnu/odbc/psqlodbcw.so   
    Setup           = /usr/lib/x86_64-linux-gnu/odbc/libodbcpsqlS.so   
    Debug           = 0   
    CommLog         = 0   
    UsageCount      = 0   
    Threading       = 0   
    MaxLongVarcharSize = 65536

Web server install
==================


* securing apache

::

    sudo a2enmod ssl
    sudo make-ssl-cert /usr/share/ssl-cert/ssleay.cnf /etc/ssl/private/localhost.pem (or use others methods or certificats)

* install python virtualenv

::

	pip install virtualenv
	cd /usr/local
	virtualenv venv --no-site-packages
	chown -R myuser:mysuser venv (replace myuser by your current user, perhaps root - better other one)

* activate it :

::

	source venv/bin/activate
	cd venv

* install CPAN :

   * install all dependent packages for CPAN

   ::

		apt-get install build-essential

   * invoke the cpan command as a normal user :
   
   ::

      $cpan
      But once you hit on enter for “cpan” to execute, you be asked of
      some few questions. To make it simple for yourself, answer “no”
      for the first question so that the latter ones will be done for
      you automatically.

      -> ANSWER YES
      
   
   * Once the above is done, you will be present with the cpan prompt.
      now enter the commands below
      
   ::
      
      cpan prompt> make install
      cpan prompt> install Bundle::CPAN


   * Now all is set and you can install any perl module you want.
      examples of what installed below
      
   ::
      
      cpan prompt>  install Carp
      cpan prompt>  install Filter::Simple
      cpan prompt>  install Config::Vars
      cpan prompt>  exit
      

Pyfreebilling installation
==========================

* download pyfreebilling sources :

::

	git clone https://mwolff@bitbucket.org/mwolff/pyfreebilling.git
	chown -R www-data:www-data pyfreebilling
	cd pyfreebilling

* create un new file in pyfreebilling directory called local_settings.py

::

    touch pyfreebilling/local_settings.py
    
* edit this new file, and put yours specific values

::

	# -*- coding: utf-8 -*-
	from .settings import *
	
	DEBUG = False
	
	MANAGERS = ADMINS
	
	DATABASES = {
	    'default': {
	        'ENGINE': 'django.db.backends.postgresql_psycopg2',
	        'NAME': 'pyfreebilling',
	        'USER': 'pyfreebilling',
	        'PASSWORD': 'password',
	        'HOST': '127.0.0.1',                      
	        'PORT': '',                      # Set to empty string for default.
	    }
	}
	
	ALLOWED_HOSTS = ['*']

	SECRET_KEY = 'securitykeymustbechanged'  # very important - put your key for security - any string
	
	TIME_ZONE = 'Europe/Paris'

	OPENEXCHANGERATES_APP_ID = "Your API Key"
	
	#-- Nb days of CDR to show
	PFB_NB_ADMIN_CDR = 3
	PFB_NB_CUST_CDR = 30
	
	# EMAIL SETUP
	TEMPLATED_EMAIL_BACKEND = 'templated_email.backends.vanilla_django.TemplateBackend'
	TEMPLATED_EMAIL_TEMPLATE_DIR = 'templated_email/'
	TEMPLATED_EMAIL_FILE_EXTENSION = 'email'
	
	EMAIL_BACKEND = 'django.core.mail.backends.smtp.EmailBackend'
	EMAIL_HOST = ''
	EMAIL_PORT = 587
	EMAIL_HOST_USER = ''
	EMAIL_HOST_PASSWORD = ''
	#EMAIL_USE_TLS = True
	EMAIL_USE_SSL = True
	EMAIL_SIGNATURE = '' 

* and now, enter the following commands without sudo (IMPORTANT). At the step "syncdb", you will fave a prompt asking you to enter a username and a password. They are very important, as thez are the admin one !
	
::

	pip install -r requirements/requirements.txt
	python manage.py syncdb (IMPORTANT : enter your username and password)
	python manage.py initcurrencies
	python manage.py migrate
	python manage.py loaddata country_dialcode.json
	python manage.py loaddata switch 0001_fixtures.json
	python manage.py loaddata 0001_initial_SipProfile.json
	python manage.py loaddata 0001_initial_ReccurentTasks.json
	python manage.py updatecurrencies (if you have set your Openexchange API key)
	python manage.py collectstatic (answer 'yes')


* copy some config files :

::

	cp -av /usr/local/venv/pyfreebilling/freeswitch/conf/autoload_configs/acl.conf.xml /usr/local/freeswitch/conf/autoload_configs/acl.conf.xml
	cp -av /usr/local/venv/pyfreebilling/freeswitch/conf/autoload_configs/cdr_csv.conf.xml /usr/local/freeswitch/conf/autoload_configs/cdr_csv.conf.xml
	cp -av /usr/local/venv/pyfreebilling/freeswitch/conf/autoload_configs/modules.conf.xml /usr/local/freeswitch/conf/autoload_configs/modules.conf.xml
	cp -av /usr/local/venv/pyfreebilling/freeswitch/conf/autoload_configs/nibblebill.conf.xml /usr/local/freeswitch/conf/autoload_configs/nibblebill.conf.xml
	cp -av /usr/local/venv/pyfreebilling/freeswitch/dialplan/pyfreebill.xml /usr/local/freeswitch/conf/dialplan/pyfreebill.xml
	cp -av /usr/local/venv/pyfreebilling/freeswitch/dialplan/public/00_did.xml /usr/local/freeswitch/conf/dialplan/public/00_did.xml
	cp -av /usr/local/venv/pyfreebilling/freeswitch/conf/freeswitch.xml /usr/local/freeswitch/conf/freeswitch.xml


* copy freeswitch esl binaries to your virtual env directory

::

    cd /usr/src/freeswitch
    cp libs/esl/python/ESL.py /usr/local/venv/lib/python2.7/site-packages/
    cp libs/esl/python/_ESL.so /usr/local/venv/lib/python2.7/site-packages/

* set good rights :

::

	rm -f /usr/local/freeswitch/conf/directory/default/*
	chown -R freeswitch:freeswitch /usr/local/venv/pyfreebilling/freeswitch/scripts/
	chmod 2750 /usr/local/freeswitch
	chmod 2750 /usr/local/freeswitch/conf/
	chmod 2750 /usr/local/freeswitch/conf/autoload_configs/
	chmod 2750 /usr/local/freeswitch/conf/directory/
	chmod 2750 /usr/local/freeswitch/conf/dialplan/
	chmod 2750 /usr/local/freeswitch/conf/dialplan/public/
	chmod 770 /usr/local/freeswitch/conf/directory/default.xml
	chmod 770 /usr/local/freeswitch/conf/autoload_configs/sofia.conf.xml
	chmod 770 /usr/local/freeswitch/conf/dialplan/public/00_did.xml
	chown freeswitch:www-data -R /usr/local/freeswitch/
	mkdir /tmp/cdr-csv/
	chmod 777 -R /tmp/cdr-csv
	touch /tmp/cdr-csv/Master.csv
	chmod 600 /tmp/cdr-csv/Master.csv
	chown freeswitch:freeswitch /tmp/cdr-csv/Master.csv
	chown -R freeswitch:daemon /tmp/cdr-csv/


* set apache config :

::

	cp /usr/local/venv/pyfreebilling/setup/apache/001-pyfreebilling /etc/apache2/sites-enabled/000-default
	a2ensite 000-default
	/etc/init.d/apache2 restart


* set crontab :

::

    */1 * * * * perl /usr/local/venv/pyfreebilling/freeswitch/scripts/import-csv.pl>> /var/log/cron.log 2>&1   
    * * * * * /usr/local/venv/pyfreebilling/chroniker -e /usr/local/venv/bin/activate_this.py -p /usr/local/venv/pyfreebilling


* modify db password and somme settings in :

::

	/usr/local/venv/pyfreebilling/pyfreebilling/local_settings.py
	/usr/local/venv/pyfreebilling/freeswitch/scripts/import-csv.pl


* restart FreeSwitch :

::

    sudo /etc/init.d/freeswitch restart



Pyfreebilling login
==========================

 Got to the url https://my-ip/extranet and enter your username and password.

 The customer portal url is : https://my-ip
 
 I recommend to setup a firewall restrincting access to web pages and your voip ports !
